It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
and here in Hong Kong. You're watching
the China show. I'm Annabelle Ruler with
Stephen Engle.
>> Hi, good morning, Annabelle. Here
counting down the open of the markets in
greater China. Our top stories this
Friday morning, caution in the markets
ahead of the next week's Fed decision,
and delayed US inflation numbers.
Today's yuan fix also in focus on signs
Beijing is not quite ready to let the
currency fly high. China's AI push
accelerating with chip developer Moore
Threads to debut this hour in Shanghai.
Meanwhile, Cambricon plans to more than
triple its production of semiconductors
to fill the Nvidia void. And the French
President Emmanuel Macron urges China to
invest more in Europe as he and Xi
Jinping visit the city
>> [music]
>> of Chengdu.
>> Well, welcome to Friday morning action
today, and you're seeing stocks here
actually looking to end the week on a
bit of a sour note. So, you did actually
have a pretty lackluster session on Wall
Street overnight, and that is certainly
translating into the morning session.
The clear laggard is Japan, but put it
in context cuz yesterday [music] you saw
those tech-heavy benchmarks, the Kospi,
the Taiwan under pressure. They're sort
of trading fairly steady today, but the
Nikkei is off 1.4%.
In the US, it's it's very much that
focus coming down to inflation data
because the Fed is going to be getting a
reading on their preferred inflation
gauge later Friday. So, a bit of wait
and see until we see that data coming
through. We'll also get the backdated
figures for September as well for
income, the spending report, and that of
course was delayed due to the government
shutdown. The dollar you can see there
again, fairly steady so far in the
session. But let's take a look at the
Golden Dragon Index overnight because
lots of attention on Chinese equities,
and we're going to get through it in
this hour as we should said that we've
got that debut of Moore Threads in the
session today. Moore Threads, it's a
chip designer. It's one of the the
up-and-coming names in China, very very
key to the broader semiconductor
ecosystem. The chairman of that company
was actually with Nvidia until 2020, and
then he formed the business. So, again,
a really important one for us to track.
Golden Dragon Index overnight, little
change in the session. But let's also
take a look at equity futures ahead of
the open as we said in just under 30
minutes from now. Looking fairly muted
so far. Again, that focus with still
going to be coming back down to the
yuan.
The yuan, absolutely. So, we got that
clear signal yesterday when we were
right here on the China show with that
daily fix. Kind of authorities slowing
down the pace that we were seeing the
yuan gain as the dollar weakness was
pervasive, but also signs in the Chinese
economy
were pointing towards a stronger yuan,
and it was pointing towards that seven
handle to the dollar. But they put the
brakes on it. The people that we've
spoken to, Annabelle, are essentially
saying PBOC maybe wants a slower
approach before they know for sure what
the Fed is going to do next week as well
with their a possible dovish stance.
Yeah, and I think Bloomberg Economics
has a really great view on this, and we
do have Changshu coming up in about 10
minutes from now. But just talking about
this is a playbook we've seen before.
You know, we can't really be too
surprised in the action and that
pushback we're seeing from the PBOC.
Yeah, it doesn't mean that they're
against appreciation of the yuan, and
that's something we will unpack with
Changshu and others today. But again,
it's the pace of the appreciation.
>> Yeah, and as we said, the other big
theme that we're watching in the session
today is Moore Threads, and I'm just so
personally excited about this one. I
really really am, but So, it's an AI
circuit maker, circuit board maker,
right?
>> Yeah, we can think about this as a
company that that makes GPUs
essentially. So,
following the Nvidia model. So, you do
actually have two chip makers in focus
or chip developers today. There's
Cambricon, which develops what's called
an ASIC chip. So, that's a chip that has
specialized functionality, and that can
include for AI. And then you have a GPU,
which is that general more general use
one, parallel functionality, and that is
the Nvidia approach. So, that is also a
company that is going to be following or
looking to follow in those footsteps
with the money that it's raised
essentially.
>> Cambricon is not necessarily just
filling the void left by essentially the
exit of Nvidia. It's also taking on the
overall leader Huawei in China. Yeah,
exactly, because you've got I guess
there's competition amongst the chip
developers, and and these are some of
the different bigger names in the
market. But of course, they still need
to work with their foundries like SMIC
for instance that continues to really be
stuck at 7 nanometer technology. But
let's also take a look at at the agenda
for today because yes, okay, Moore
Threads is one of the items, but there
are other things we're focusing in on,
and that includes of course what the
yuan we've talked about. We've got a
government debt sale coming through. The
food delivery sector is another focus as
well. That's right, because we got word
from the regulators, the State
Administration for Market Regulation
yesterday that they're going to sort of
tighten oversight of the food delivery
platforms. There's been a vicious price
war there in that sector trying to drive
out some of the smaller competition. But
again, there's going to be more
oversight from the regulators. So,
that's why we're going to watch
companies like Meituan today.
All right, let's get to Moore Threads
now with our China correspondent Mimmin
Low who joins us. So,
Mimmin, what can you tell us about this
company? Cuz again, I'm just
I really am very excited
>> [laughter]
>> Yes, I can tell, Bell. But yes, this is
a company. It's quite interesting
because it's started by an ex-Nvidia
employee in 2020, and it again started
out selling GPUs chips for computer
graphics, visual rendering, and then
eventually it pivoted away to AI
accelerators for large language models.
So, that that sounds very familiar to
the
similar to the Nvidia model.
And interest has been staggering in
China. The retail portion of this IPO
over 2,700 times oversubscribed. Mind
you though, this is a company that is
still unprofitable at this at this
point. It is still making losses as of
last year, 1.5 billion yuan in losses,
430 million yuan in revenue. But this
year we saw that number improve
tremendously, and it really fits into
that domestic substitution theme.
>> And it's really it has tentacles that
spread out. So, there number of other
industry players that are tied to this
company. We saw that in the stock market
yesterday, the stock reaction to
Shenzhen H&T Intelligent Control,
Hangzhou CNCRIT,
Lu'anmei, Quantum. So, again, that's why
we're looking at this not just as a
individual company, but also because of
the tentacles. Yeah, it's you got to see
it in conjunction with all the
developments in the AI space in China
because not it's not just that Moore
Threads that is sort of looking at an
IPO now. This IPO could potentially pave
the way for other IPOs including the
likes of Changxin Memory Technology,
Yangtze Memory Technologies. They are
all mulling IPOs in Shanghai as well.
You got to look at it in the context of
how Cambricon is looking to triple its
output next year. Huawei looking to
double its output of chips next year.
But still, there is some gap for this
company to catch up on because when you
look at Nvidia, you look at the current
capabilities even for Cambricon, it's
relying on SMIC's technology that is
stuck at the 7 nanometer stage, which is
several generations away because
currently what TSMC can do is 2
nanometers or below. So, still some some
ways to go.
All right, Mimmin, great to have you
with us, and we'll of course be tracking
the debut or trading debut of Moore
Threads at the bottom of the hour. But
let's bring in James Wong now. He's head
of China strategy at UBS Global
Research. And and James, I know you
can't comment on Moore Threads
specifically, but but just talk to us
about what you're seeing across the
broader semi ecosystem in China and and
the investability of it as well. Yes, so
we very much like the tech names in
China, the semiconductor equipment
names. And I was fortunate actually to
visit some of these companies,
the manufacturers in particular. And you
can see the localization that you guys
were mentioning. That's really
happening. And some of the fab that I'm
that they're talking about. So, every
part of their supply chain, the
manufacturing process, there's now a
credible Chinese counterpart Mhm. in the
process. And they're talking about
moving the localization, the
manufacturing process to something like
50%. So, it is happening at a very quick
pace. Yeah. And the and the semi experts
we've met we've met previously will talk
about compare some of the Nvidia H20
chips to for example the domestic due
chips, and the the difference is quite
small. And that is why you're seeing for
example the government saying actually
we don't need the H20 chips.
Well, that's it. And then we've been
discussing this all week, this exact
question. Even if you could get H200
chips to China, would China actually
want them just given that big focus on
on building up the local local
ecosystem. So, you mentioned some of the
foundry plays. That's That's Hua Hong.
That's SMIC as well.
What do you think then about the outlook
for any sort of bigger breakthroughs and
the amount of of investment that you see
because it is a very difficult sector to
get a reading on even from an analyst
perspective just given you've got a lot
of it that sort of happens behind closed
doors. Yes. So, so for us if I look at
the profitability of the hardware tech
companies, the semiconductor equipment
companies, they've been accelerating.
And that's because there's actually real
demand for their products now. I the AI
servers, the
domestic substitution, and their
products quality is also improving. So,
to me, I think investment phase will
continue. And you look at memory prices
are also going up. So, it's also
encouraging more spending on on the
equipment supply chain. This wave is
also sort of encouraging optimism of
domestic innovation and the you know, to
eventually lift the Chinese economy. But
the task at hand are right now is
anti-involution and trying to stop the
price war and get consumers spending and
stop that horrible deflationary cycle.
So, going into this Central Economic
Work Conference where they're going to
be setting the priorities,
what should be the priorities now? Yes,
AI advancements and combating what you
know, Nvidia's leads in AI chips and
accelerators is a long-term goal which
they're gaining traction. But what are
the targets they need to hit right now?
So, I can talk about what the investors
want to see, but
obviously we don't know what the
government's going to target, but we've
got hints of it. So, again,
technological independence, boosting
consumption, but I definitely I think
investors want to see more measures
being implemented on consumption. It's
very clear that the consumption next
year is going to face a tougher comp,
right? Subsidy effects are going to wear
off. We've already seen a bit of that.
And also generally the wealth effect
associated with the property market,
it's also still negative. We've seen
property prices continue to decline. And
so, I guess consumption is really what
investors want to see. And on top of it,
definitely the anti-pollution stimulus
you mentioned, protecting business
profitability. What's the what's the
catalyst that the investors are looking
for though?
So, exactly those. I think
anti-pollution, how exactly how they're
going to implement it. And also, there's
been talk, so we've got hints of it, the
government targeting consumption as
percentage of GDP. Now, we don't we
haven't got an idea exactly what target
that would be. Right now it's about 40%.
>> 40% correct. I've heard, you know, calls
that it should be about 50%. There
should be a stated goal. Would that
help?
If there's a stated goal, we know if the
government has a goal, usually they'll
strive to achieve it and usually they
get there. That's the point. That's the
point. If they make a stated goal,
they'll hit it. We don't know yet. So,
let's hope we see some kind of it. Maybe
we don't see it the Central Economic
Work Conference, but Two Sessions
meeting is another
milestone or another time frame we can
look into that. Anti-pollution is pretty
hard to crack down on in or specifically
in the services sector. And and and what
do you think's happening with the the
big tech names? I'm thinking of course
JD, Meituan, Alibaba. Yeah.
It's all definitely tough. They all have
their competitive
or competitive goals, but one hint or
one comfort we got was that Alibaba is
talking about lower losses in its
instant shopping food delivery business
heading to the next couple quarters. So,
it seems like we've hit the peak, but
how gradual, how quickly can we see that
recovery in profitability? That's still
difficult to see. Um
but we have seen in other sectors, for
example, in express delivery, in airline
prices, we've seen a bit of recovery
because of this anti-pollution drive.
So, we have seen on the ground even in
services sectors where there are some
quite a bit of private players, if their
profitability is really struggling,
there is an incentive to boost pricing.
If these
fruits, you know, come to fruition, if
you will, by the end of next year, what
do the markets the China markets look
like? So,
so for us, so we expect so MSCI China
target is 100. So, we've got an EPS
forecast of about 10% into next year.
With top line growth of about 5% and
margin improvement to to us is quite
critical. So, anti-pollution will be one
of those that drives margin improvement.
And also lower depreciation. So, we've
seen we actually think capex for listed
companies having come down. So, that
would potentially give us another 4% and
when with a 1% buyback yield, it's about
a 10% EPS growth. And and we also expect
a little bit more of a valuation uplift
as earnings growth accelerates. So,
giving us a something like a teens kind
of upside for the target for next year.
I just needed to mention some lines that
have crossed the terminal because we
actually had the China market regulator
issuing guidelines to tighten oversight
of food delivery platforms and again try
and curb that that price competition
we're seeing. We've had a response to
that uh just in the last few moments
from from JD. They're saying that
they're going to be complying with the
new government standards around food
delivery. Meituan as well saying that
they're going to be adopting new
standards for food delivery platforms.
So, I mean this is all about again
trying to try and to curb that that
price competition, protect workers'
rights as well.
>> Protect workers' rights, that's a big
one as well for the for the government.
So, that's that'll be an interesting
sector because again, the price war has
eroded profitability tremendously,
hasn't it? So,
again, there other industries as well
that you need to look at that need to
stop the race to the bottom, if you
will, EVs and the like. Are there
specific sectors you see that you like
because they might benefit from the
government's intervention? So, so far
what we have seen is the government
slowing down the capacity expansions for
companies. And we have seen, for
example, manufacturing capex in the most
recent quarter
nationally has slowed down. The listed
listed companies, they've already slowed
down from last year.
And and the sectors that we really like
is actually solar. Solar. Solar sector
But there's overcapacity there. For
sure.
To us it's actually the problem child.
Because if I compare the various
sectors, their net profit margin, right?
That's going through anti-pollution,
solar is the one that makes the least
profit. We're talking about 0% net
profit margin versus historical average
of 10%. And if you look into 2015-16,
why the government went through the
supply side reform for sectors like
steel and coal, it's because these
sectors were not making money.
So, for me, I think solar does make
sense. And our share price have gone up,
but we're talking about an upside from
0% profit margin to normalized
historical average of 10%. So, we're
still talking about huge potential
upside in terms of profit margin. So,
for us, solar is really the one to play
for the for this anti-pollution drive.
Can I just get your views as well, last
question, around AI specifically? We
have seen, for instance, you've got the
big names and the names we sort of know,
you can buy Alibaba or Baidu. I mean
they've both got their semi efforts.
You've got those listed names like like
Huahong or SMIC. Do you prefer that kind
of approach or do you look more for the
sort of some smaller suppliers in in the
industry?
For instance, optical transceivers that
that got a lot of attention this year.
Yeah, so we've got two
actually a couple of tracks to follow. I
think we buy them all, if you like. We
buy we like the platform companies,
particularly the biggest AI companies in
China, right? They're the ones that most
likely to monetize off AI because of
their strength their platform. We still
like the very much the localization
theme, either semiconductor names. I
think that will happen irrespective what
happens to global AI.
On top of it, we still very much like
the US AI names. So, we think capex will
continue to increase. So, those that are
geared towards the global AI play, we
still like. So, i.e. the optical
transceiver names, the PCB names.
All right, James, thanks so much for
joining us this morning, head of China
strategy at UBS
Global Research. Thanks so much. All
right, I think we're going to check the
yuan fix right now. Do we have that up
on our screen? Cuz there it is, 7.0749.
Again, yesterday as we were sitting
here, Belle, we were talking about um
the efforts by the authorities to
essentially slow down the rapid
appreciation that we are seeing. So,
a weaker rate, no, yes, a slightly
weaker than the consensus estimate of
7.0740.
A little bit weaker at the reference
rate this [music] morning at 7.70749.
Yeah, an interesting one. We'll get more
context on that just in the next few
minutes. We're going to be counting down
of course to the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hong Kong.
This is the China Show.
Great.
All right, welcome back to the China
Show. You're watching Bloomberg, of
course. Uh
we're looking at the yuan fix in the
last few minutes.
The survey was 7.0740.
The actual reference rate that came in
just a couple minutes ago at slightly
weaker than that, but it's not perhaps
as strong a signal as we got yesterday
when it was a clear indication that
authorities wanted to pump the brakes a
little bit on the pace of appreciation.
Did the market essentially get the
signals yesterday? So, essentially the
fix is not as strong a signal from the
PBOC and from authorities as it was
yesterday. That doesn't necessarily, as
I've been saying, mean that the
authorities are against the appreciation
of the yuan. It's just the pace of that
appreciation. For more, let's bring in
our Bloomberg Chief Asia Economist,
Chang Shu, joining us now. So, again,
what's your take on this? The market got
the message?
I think the market got the message, but
it's not a surprise that the PBOC came
out quite strongly yesterday to to push
back this
the the
in a way sort of by China terms
rapid appreciation. The
the market has been building up the
appreciation momentum. We have our own
RMB stress
tracker and that's indicating prior to
the PBOC push back, the appreciation
pressures reached the strongest in 4
years. We know that the PBOC tends to
come out when they are one-way movements
or one-way expectations. So, so
they
they tend to be more relaxed when macro
and market conditions are aligned that
say
no massive shocks to to the economy and
they there no massive movement in one
direction. So, so going forward, we do
see the PBOC come
come into the market, continue to guide
the market to to more sort of two-way
movements and potentially sort of with a
gradual appreciation
trends if that's supported by macro and
market.
Yeah, so they they will allow for more
flexibility. It's just that the market
conditions need to be there for that to
happen. What do you think then about the
the trajectory over the coming couple of
weeks? You've got the Fed decision,
you're coming into the Politburo
meeting, you've got the Central Economic
Work Conference. What's what's the
outlook then?
Yeah, if we talk about the near-term
outlook, I I I think the the will
continue be some appreciation
uh pressures for the for the RMB.
There's some macro narrative which I
have some sympathy on, although I I I do
see the market did sort of run ahead of
itself a bit. So so so there are some
sort of
there's a macro narrative pushing the um
pushing the RMB uh stronger. At the same
time, at the year end there are seasonal
factors, exporters bring back um
the the dollar funds and convert and to
RMB. So that's also adding uh pressure.
So we do see some pressures uh going
forward and and and the US uh the Fed is
already the market is slated in um
a currency
uh I interest rate cuts that could
potentially sort of add to the
pressures. Yeah. Yeah, but that
seasonality factor is is yeah, one as
well, yeah. All right, Chang, thanks for
much for joining us. That was our
Bloomberg Economics Chief Asia Economist
Chang Shu there and we're counting down
to the open of trade in mainland
markets, also Hong Kong. Taking a look
at how we're seeing those faring across
the board and we are setting up for for
we've got futures already or already
pre-market trading [music] rather, but
you're seeing the Hang Seng down by 4/10
of 1%. Big focus on the tech space today
given we do have that Moore Threads
[music] debut coming up in about 7
minutes from now. So more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
Taking a look at the Hong Kong
pre-market session today, you actually
are seeing stocks looking like we're
going to see a bit of a drop at the
open, but let's take a quick check on
some of those movers as well because
you've got those food delivery platforms
in focus. Alibaba, JD, Meituan. China
has come out saying they're going to be
looking to tighten their oversight of
food delivery platforms. JD and Meituan
have already responded [music] to this
saying that they will comply with the
rules. Let's also take a look at at some
of the chip makers or data news today.
You've got CanSemi, [music] which is
going to be under pressure. You can see
making its trading debut today, but it
is a wafer production manufacturer. Also
got Moore Threads, a big one to note
because that is a mainland listing. It
is one of [music] the biggest or the
second biggest we've seen for mainland
exchanges so far this year.
>> [music]
>> Heavily oversubscribed that retail
proportion. And actually
when you take a look at Shanghai [music]
pre-market session, it does indicate
perhaps we're going to see quite a
strong jump at the open. More ahead.
This is the China Show.
Dan, welcome back. You are of course
watching the China Show here on
Bloomberg. We're counting down to the
open of the markets coming up in about
40 seconds. Of course, we're watching a
debutante [music]
Annabelle up in Shanghai, a couple of
debutantes here in Hong Kong.
Is it Friday morning? It's a busy Friday
morning and I just can't say how excited
I am about this trading debut today. But
Moore Threads, I mean it was heavily
oversubscribed [music]
on the retail portion. I think we were
seeing more than 2,700 times. So it just
points to that huge amount of interest.
[music] I think actually one of the most
uh oversubscribed share listings we've
seen going back to 2022. It is [music]
the second biggest IPO as well for
onshore markets this year. So it's
raised more than a billion dollars. This
is a company that very much sees itself
>> [music]
>> as as wanting to follow in the footsteps
of Nvidia. But let's take a look at how
markets are faring as we come online
today because you've got the Shanghai
Composite uh so far trading fairly
steady, but again, coming back to Moore
Threads, let's uh change that strap
there. Make sure you uncheck uh
Closest Rate or Checkers Rate, but
essentially we are seeing a very very
strong surge at the open here because
shares had been priced significantly
below that threshold and we are seeing
again a lot of optimism into it so far
today. So you're seeing again
a jump there of about 500% at the start
of trade. So this is a company that was
founded by by a man who worked for
Nvidia from 2006 until 2020. This is uh
Jang Jong Ming and he essentially has
started this business. Aims, as we said,
to to make GPUs. He wants to be globally
competitive in this business as well. So
it is a very interesting one to to see,
especially because you've got a lot of
optimism around any breakthroughs we see
in China semiconductor industry in
general. But that's the story there.
Let's take a look at what's happening in
the Hong Kong session because
pre-markets have been indicating we're
going to see stocks a bit under pressure
today. And again, you are seeing that
with tech outperforming those broader
losses that you've got at the likes of
Alibaba, Baidu, Meituan, all in the red.
In terms of Alibaba, Meituan, of course,
it's that focus on
on on the food delivery platforms. We
had the regulators coming out saying
that they wanted to have further
scrutiny of this. We've already heard
from JD and Meituan saying they're going
to be complying with these new
standards. But again, it is sort of a
down arrow story today. Pretty much
every sector in the red so far. But as
we said, that big focus is on Moore
Threads and
and really that that huge surge that
you're seeing at the open here as it is
a a chip developer. It's it's one of the
the better known startups in China. And
as I said, founded by Jang Jang Jang
Jang Jong rather, who worked at Nvidia.
>> Yeah, AI circuit maker. And again, it
really fits into the theme of of the
news flow we've seen this week with
Cambricon talking about adding on to
their doubling, I believe, their output
of AI accelerators to take on not only
Nvidia's void that in the China market,
but also the market leader Huawei. And
then Ten Yu is the the semiconductor
company that's also having a listing
debutante in Hong Kong 60 times
oversubscribed. But let's get more on
the much anticipated debut of Moore
Threads.
Asia Equities Reporter Sangmi Cha joins
us uh now. So
the market seems to be just as excited
as Annabelle is [laughter] for for this
listing.
Yeah.
So
why should investors be really looking
at this right now? Yeah, it started with
a bang. We're seeing over 400% rise at
open. Of course, some IPOs we have seen
this kind of moves, but in onshore, it's
quite significant and it's the second
largest IPO that we're seeing onshore.
And also for those that are bigger than
1 billion, it goes back to 2022.
And the
the biggest popularity there right now.
Of course, the interest right now is
because we've seen, you know, there's so
many of these Nvidia wannabes in China.
With Cambricon, for instance, the shares
have doubled this year. And it really
feeds in that whole self-sufficiency
theme that we have seen in China because
Nvidia chips are just not allowed
onshore. And so even overnight, the
senators US said that they don't want to
they want to bar AI advanced advanced AI
chips That's into China. That's that new
regulation the new bill that was
proposed bipartisan bill called SAFE,
the acronym, right?
>> Precisely so, yes. So how much weight is
that going to have though to weigh down
Jensen Huang's ambitions because he's
was called to Washington. He's met with
lawmakers. And he's been tight-lipped.
Exactly, but he did say that he's not
sure even if US were to relax some of
these restrictions, whether China will
really take that H200, right? Because
Beijing has been pushing for the
self-sufficiency. They have been
discouraging local companies to not use
Nvidia chips. So it really begs the
question, um is China going to take it?
Of course, the companies want to. And of
course, we have Moore Threads now. Yeah.
Which makes the GPUs uh they they have
similar patterns that they're showing
just because the founder is an ex-Nvidia
employee. He started off with
the graphic units for gaming and video
rendering. Now they're looking at AI
accelerator. Yeah, I think that's sort
of one of the
points of difference between Moore
Threads and Cambricon is that Moore
Threads is working on developing fully
functional GPUs, whereas Cambricon is
focused on the so-called ASIC chips that
that have
more specific functionality and that
includes for for particular AI tasks.
But talk to us then about the broader
ecosystem in in China and across Asia. I
mean, because we know, of course, the
main names and then that's TSMC, SK
Hynix, Samsung, of course. But but what
about the the move to look for the
smaller players as well? That's correct.
You know, as the saying goes, when
there's a gold rush, sell shovels. But
then what's happening now is investors
are looking for the suppliers that make
these shovels, right? So we're seeing a
lot of that branching out into smaller
and mid-caps. We see some companies like
MediaTek, which is a tiny Taiwanese
company that makes GPUs, one of the
ASICs, right? And Zhongji Innolight,
which is a optical transceiver maker in
China that has jumped so much because it
actually gets revenue from Amazon and
Google as well, right? And so we have
companies like PCB maker in Korea called
Isu Petasys. So these are like the
lesser known names that we've been
hearing a lot. And we're not saying that
these memory makers and foundries are
not going to do well. Of course, the
established names are always going to be
here with us. We see precisely in the
short interest in SK Hynix, for
instance, the biggest HBM provider to
Nvidia is at the lowest right now. I
mean, it's fallen from 3% to 0.6% from
from May. So, we see that there's
growing interest still the interest is
still there for TSMC, Samsung, and
Hynix, but again, we see that broadening
out.
>> Mhm. Yeah, we are seeing the broadening
out. And where should be Where should
investors be looking at for
tangent
tangible industries, if you will, that
are going to benefit from this rush of
investment into the key names? Yeah, so
the analysts that I've been talking to
say that Asia is where they're looking
at right now, because 90% of these um
you know, equipment that goes into data
centers or servers are all concentrated
in Asia. So, Taiwan, Korea, Thailand,
and even mainland China, of course. Um
so, because of that, uh there is so much
interest there, and we have seen that
rotation from some of the bigger
heavyweights that you have just
mentioned, like SoftBank, for instance,
has fallen close to 40% in November
after Google came up with came out with
this um updated Gemini 3. So, we we see
a little bit of rotation from these
bigger names to again, those smaller
equipment makers. All right, Sang-Mee,
that was great. Uh that was our equity
reporter Asia equities reporter Sang-Mee
Cha there, and uh some of the other tech
stories that we're watching today we we
were mentioning Nvidia, of course,
already, but US senators are seeking to
ban ban Nvidia from shipping advanced AI
chips to China. They've been introduced
by partisan legislation in a bid to
codify existing US restrictions on
exports of advanced semiconductors. The
bill would effectively bar Nvidia from
selling [music] its H200 chips to
Chinese customers, as well as its more
advanced Blackwell products.
Meta shares gained as Bloomberg revealed
Mark Zuckerberg [music] is expected to
make significant cuts to resources for
building his company's so-called
metaverse. Our sources say executives
are considering [music] venture cuts as
high as 30% for units including Meta
Horizon Works and Quest VR. The CEO had
previously framed the project as the
future of the company and the reason for
[music] changing its name from Facebook.
Alphabet investors are increasingly
confident the company's chips could
become a major driver of revenue for
Google's [music] parent. DA Davidson
says Alphabet could capture 20% of the
AI market over the next few years if it
gets serious about selling its tensor
processing units or TPUs, which [music]
is a type of ASIC chip, but that would
make it a roughly $900 business. The
success of TPU chips is a key reason for
the stock's 30% rally in the fourth
quarter, putting it amongst the best
performers in the S&P 500 index. All
right, we'll leave you for this segment
with a look at how Asian markets are
doing as we go to break. Coming up after
the break, David Booth, Dimensional Fund
[music] Advisors chair and founder, will
be joining us. This is the China Show,
and this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> And welcome back to the China Show.
Well, legendary investor and Berkshire
Hathaway CEO Warren Buffett is retiring
at the end of this year. For many
investors, it's the end of an era.
Bloomberg Originals looks at how Buffett
changed investing forever and what's
next for the company he built. Here's a
preview.
If investors had a Hall of Fame, Warren
Buffett would [music] occupy his own
wing.
People from all over the planet
>> They look up to him.
Read his biography, hop on a plane to go
see him talk.
He took a failing textile [music] mill
and turned it into a trillion-dollar
conglomerate. It has insurance
companies, Dairy Queens,
railroads,
and energy businesses.
For decades, [music] Buffett's
investment savvy has led Berkshire
Hathaway to beat benchmarks. One of the
biggest asset [music] managers today,
which is Vanguard. The entire philosophy
is no one's really going to be able to
beat the market, so you [music] might as
well not even try. Well, okay. No one
besides Warren Buffett. If you look at
the total [music] returns, Berkshire
blows the S&P 500 away. The legendary
investor Warren Buffett
>> So, when the 95-year-old [music]
announced he would retire at the end of
2025,
Greg should become
the chief [music] executive officer of
the company. It marked the end of an era
at Berkshire Hathaway. Greg Abel led
Berkshire's energy business for so many
years,
but it is tricky. Warren Buffett has not
only been a very good investor, but he's
also pretty charismatic. [music]
He won't be writing the annual letter
next February. This is a big change
because Buffett fans have been pouring
over that letter over the years, because
it's full of witticisms, investment
advice, pearls of wisdom. There's also
the fact that he's not going to be
taking Q&A at the annual meeting next
May in Omaha. Morning. Welcome to
Berkshire Hathaway. He was talking for 4
to 5 hours every year and taking [music]
questions from people that follow him
all over the planet. That is going to be
a big change because Buffett's
personality isn't [music] matched in the
investment world.
And subscribers can watch the full
documentary on the terminal and
bloomberg.com. It will also be available
on Bloomberg's YouTube channels at a
later date. Well, our next guest uh
founded Dimensional Fund Advisors in
1981, of course, another pillar in the
investment community, growing it into a
global investment manager with more than
$900 billion
in assets. It's also the world's largest
issuer of actively managed ETFs. Joining
us now here in Hong Kong is Dimensional
Chairman David Booth. David, good to see
you. Well, great to see you. Great to be
back in Hong Kong. Great to have you
back in Hong Kong. I understand you
haven't been to this part of the world
in 6 years, so pre-pandemic. Yeah,
right.
>> I hate to tell you a lot has changed.
>> [laughter]
>> What's your key takeaway from what
you've seen? Well, I I I tell you I I
think the excitement is back in Hong
Kong. You know, that's one thing that
that's kind of the key takeaway kind of
informally. Um
but you know, things have changed a lot,
and 6 years ago, it was kind of a rough
spot for Hong Kong.
>> Sure, there was political uncertainty,
and of course, the pandemic really
walloped the whole world, but a lot has
changed on the technology side in China
in the innovation. Um
is there a key takeaway for investors
that you've gotten from what has
happened across the border with the
innovative trends? Well, I think um
you know, globally, the trends are
somewhat similar. I mean, uh
um increased um
technology has changed, you know,
reducing costs, for example,
dramatically. Uh
So, to the point where investors, you
know, are getting a much better deal
today than when I started in business in
1971.
You know, there's no reason for people
to pay really high fees anymore.
For the US pension funds or endowments
that are investing through you,
do they have less of a preference now
for China though than they did in years
past now? I think a lot of it's kind of
political. Depends on on the you know,
the state and their policies. Uh
um
I mean, there are some state legislators
that uh have uh
you know, mandated a no-China uh
you know, policy. Uh
So, there's a bit of that, but uh we
still
we're investing we still invest in
China, and
So, then if you are if if if funds then
are needing to switch to to EMX China,
how does that impact you as a business?
And clients. Well, we
you know, it
it's the client's money. So, if they
want to ex-China, we do it ex-China. And
And if they want China by itself, we can
we can do that as well. So,
How do you see the trends? You just
mentioned it in a in an answer two ago
about lowering the fees and lowering the
cost for the investor, and I understand
uh more recently, you were given
approval by the SEC to essentially
do what Vanguard has been doing as well,
and that is essentially combining is it
the ETF structure with mutual funds to
allow access to these in a single as you
know, globally has exploded. That's one
of the reasons I'm here this week is
talking Yep. uh to people about our
uh active ETFs. Uh we're the largest
active ETF manager, at least in the US,
and maybe globally.
Yeah. Then on that point, I mean,
because the ETF market in in Asia is is
much smaller, of course, compared to to
the US. What's sort of the the appetite
for it here, and is there enough
awareness of of say, the preference for
active versus passive?
Well, I mean, it's
you know, we were In some ways, we were
late to the game. For years, uh our
clients
weren't all that interested in ETFs. And
now then all of a sudden, they were very
interested. I imagine the same thing
will happen here. There's there's quite
a bit of discussion about ETFs, and I
imagine it'll be
it'll be a
increasingly hot topic going forward.
Wealth management also is a key topic
here, obviously, as Hong Kong looking to
get the family office money uh versus
Singapore, but also again, you're seeing
the mainland family money wants to come
to offshore places like Hong Kong uh to
have more of a global exposure for their
portfolios. What are you seeing in the
trends for wealth management?
>> Well, I mean, uh
for one thing, over the last 50 years,
there's been a huge increase in wealth.
>> [laughter]
>> So, um
um
And once again, a lot of these the
trends will be
uh a global trend. The move away from
commission-based uh
services to fee-based uh services, I
think is
that's been the big uh change in the US
over the last 30 years and I I I I think
it's
maybe starting a bit here. The
slowly what like all of these trends
what
you know, new ideas don't usually
blossom into huge
uh
you know, huge outcomes right away. It's
usually
uh good idea starts start slowly and
then
count compound and you wake up one day
and it's huge and I think that's
that will be uh
if that move towards fee only in the in
the wealth management space.
But it it increased it
you know, big interest obviously in
retirement income, you know, that's a
um
and you know,
every year there are more tools being
developed uh
um to help people think through their
asset allocation decisions for
retirement income.
Pretty exciting. How do you think about
those tools cuz there has been as well a
shift to say robo advisors or or AI led
technologies? How do you look at at
integrating those into into your
offering?
Well, AI of course is going to be huge
in every
big part of everybody's business. Um
the at the end of the day though
uh people don't really trust algorithms.
I mean, anybody who's used AI
realizes sometimes it comes back with a
real goofy answer, you know, uh so
there's always going to be uh plenty of
room for uh
uh
trusted advice. I mean,
Trust but verify is what Ronald Reagan
used to say, right?
>> Yeah, that trust and verify. Yeah.
>> Trust but verify. So, do you trust and
have to verify the markets uh boom that
we've seen? You know, we've seen a
little bit of a pullback because of it
I'm talking about in the United States
because of the AI boom. Some would say
it is a bubble. Is it a bubble? Does the
data cuz I know you look really at the
facts rather than the rhetoric.
Is it in a bubble first off? Well, um
you know, bubbles I think are uh things
that usually um are measured after the
fact.
After it pops. After it pops then you go
that was a bubble. Well, why didn't you
tell me before the fact? You know,
that's
uh
so um
all we know is AI is going to be huge.
AI is going to
and the leaders in the field right now
are investing hundreds of billions of
dollars. This is just not a few
billions. Uh building out this
infrastructure.
And
my take on it is
uh there'll be big winners and big
losers in all of that. But are you
seeing indications like with the the
Russell 200 was up
I think at a record high. So, a
broadening of this rally.
I would I would think so. I mean, it's
um
people are I think it's really kind of
funny. On the one hand they're
optimistic about uh this AI boom and so
forth and then same time they go well,
I would expect a higher return. I mean,
I don't at some point risk and return
have to be related a bit a bit more. I
don't know how all that will shake out
but they're
over the last 10 years of course, you
know, the the magnificent seven has kind
of dominated everything.
Uh but the rest of the market um
it seems to be picking up, you know,
recently. So,
maybe it's broadening out or
um
but uh clearly um
magnificent seven can't keep growing at
the current rate they are without being
uh having to go to some other galaxy. I
guess I'm trying to ask you what's your
risk appetite like right now? Um but uh
I have pretty much a
we're pretty much constant you know,
risk appetite. I mean, it's uh
uh
the volatility of the market changes
quite a bit but you know, it's in those
periods of time for when there's a big
drop for example and people start
getting stressed out you wonder maybe
that's the time when the expected return
is the highest. So,
we're uh we're kind of in the normal the
normal range.
David, thanks so much for joining us
this morning. That was David Booth, the
founder and chairman of Dimensional Fund
Advisors. And if you're a subscriber and
you want to rewatch that interview you
can via interactive TV function that's
TV go. So, do check it out. We'll have
much more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
Taking a look at market action this
morning cuz we are
nearly 25 minutes into the session but
we're seeing some big moves here. So,
you've got CUNU box here that's just
signed a partnership to develop an AI
platform. That stock is up around 5% but
also taking a look at some of the
listings we have today because one of
those is Tianyu Semi. You've seen that
stock actually under pressure down more
than 20% but it's
initial offering was around 60 times
subscribed or over subscribed. So, it's
still a strong relatively strong
interest in it but also shifting to more
threads of course cuz this is the big
debut that we're watching in in Shanghai
today. So, that's the the uh
Star board or Star market that it's just
listed on but this is essentially what
wants to become the next Nvidia and they
are a company that's focused on fully
functional GPUs. They are one of the
rising stars in China semiconductor
ecosystem.
And you're excited about this? I'm very
excited about it.
>> Run by a former Nvidia. Yes, so exactly.
Yeah. Yeah, Zhang Zong Qing Zong rather
but he worked for Nvidia from 2006 to
2020. [music]
All right. Well, still to come we would
talk China credit strategy with Triada
Capital and why they don't see a path to
recovery for China bond co bond holders
plus Goldman Sachs tells us why global
investors are staying positive on
Chinese stocks despite low expectations
for large-scale stimulus.
Well, a lot more coming up. You're
watching the China show. You're watching
essentially the Orient Pearl Tower
there.
Welcome back to the China show taking a
look at the CSI 300. We're half an hour
into the session this morning and also
what's happening across border markets
because actually Asian equities are
under pressure in the session today. We
did see quite a lackluster [music]
trading session on Wall Street
overnight. We are waiting of course for
some key inflation data plus we're going
to get the September figures as well.
So, it's going to give more of a
direction on the outlook for the
economy. So, ahead of that actually when
you take a look at trading volumes this
morning they are very thin. They're
pretty far off their 20-day moving
averages. Uh what else we're watching is
is certainly that drop for for the
Nikkei. It's the most pronounced down
1.5%. So, that is uh the big drag so far
for us. Yeah, that's right and uh we'll
just be looking at uh signals from
policy makers in Japan as well as uh
they still haven't been able to get uh
any kind of appreciation in that yuan.
Maybe that's what they want at 150
Excuse me, the yen at 155. Yeah, that's
right and of course the BOJ decision
coming up later this month but let's
take a look as well because if there's
really one big story we're tracking in
terms of the equity picture in China
today that is Moore Threads because it's
made its trading debut this morning on
the Star market selling 70 million
shares. They were actually priced at
around 114 yuan a piece. So, it's been a
significant rally for this. It really
does make you question was the pricing
accurate
initially but but anyway, it is a
Beijing-based company founded in 2020 by
a man chairman Zhang for the business.
He was with Nvidia from 2006 to 2020.
Right. And this is a Star board listing.
So, this is going to be a little bit
more volatile. It's going to be have a
lot more retail investors as well and
there's a lot of momentum in the AI
theme in China no doubt as well.
>> Yeah, and I think it's interesting when
you talk about that interest from retail
subscribers. I mean, it was over
subscribed by 2,700 times. So, it does
really tell you it's the it's the most
over subscribed listing we've seen for
China going back to 2022 but actually
one of the biggest debuts this year for
onshore markets because it raised 1.1
billion dollars and the proceeds from
this Moore Threads really wants to put
into essentially trying to follow that
Nvidia trail.
>> Yeah, absolutely and it really fits into
the narrative of if Nvidia is not going
to be able to sell its most advanced
chips here,
who's going to be the winners in this
part of the world with its own agenda in
AI. There is this bipartisan legislation
that was unveiled on Thursday in the US.
It would bar Nvidia from shipping
advanced AI chips to China in a bid to
codify basically existing US
restrictions on chip exports. That's the
Secure and Feasible Exports Act called
SAFE. So, we can talk about that with
our next guest, Bill. Yeah, let's bring
in Gao Yuan. He's our tech reporter
joining us and and Gao, I mean, there's
two stories we can speak with you about
today. There's Moore Threads and then
you also had a great scoop on Cambricon
as well. But let's start with with Moore
Threads because
it is of course a very anticipated
listing and and you're seeing that
excitement being very much reflected so
far in its its pricing today.
Good morning, Annabelle. Good morning.
The excitement is really through the
roof. Um
this this company is one of China's
most hopeful GPU made a designer that
does not make chips per se. They
basically design GPUs similar
job that as Nvidia is doing. Uh but if
you ask me if how many chips they can
sell next year, I have to say it's not
going to be big.
Uh not not just comparing to Nvidia but
also comparing to their local
competitors like uh Cambricon and
Huawei. I know we're going to talk about
Cambricon later. Uh but for Moore
Threads, the the IPO is the first step.
They have the money to fund their
research and developments. In the in the
longer term, I think they will be one of
the, you know, contenders to uh help
China to grow their own AI chip um you
know,
uh products that will help the country
to have more technology independence in
the race against the US.
Yeah, could you share maybe some details
about the the the the architecture that
Moore Threads follows as well, because
it is different to Cambricon. It's more
aligned with perhaps the approach from
Nvidia, but but what does that actually
look like? And and what are the big
bottlenecks for the company as well, do
you think?
That's correct. So, they're they're
basically doing GPUs. Um
it's it's like like you said, it's
exactly the same technology that Nvidia
Nvidia is using. So, basically it's a
graphic card per se, and they're using
it it's to power AI uh
as as AI accelerator card.
Um the bottlenecks for Chinese uh chip
designers is that they cannot use TSMC
as a contract maker, because because
basically they are strained to local uh
contract makers like SMIC, which is a
based in Shanghai, and HuaHong also
based in Shanghai. They have several
plants. Uh but for the advanced nodes,
which means uh sub-7 nanometers, the
capacity is is limited, I have to say,
uh comparing to their compa- overseas
competitors, Intel and TSMC. So, that's
that's a concern. But for Moore Threads,
for the next year, I don't think that's
going to trouble them too much, because
the again, the the scale of their uh
product is not as big as their
competitors.
Hey Gal, uh give me the significance uh
of Cambricon's capacity jump. Tripling
is the estimate that we're seeing right
now into next year, for next year. Uh
and again, where is China with its
advancements in its AI accelerators
compared to Nvidia? Is it on par with
what, H20? That's why H20 is essentially
uh not really invited to come
participate in the China market?
Yeah, we just had a story yesterday
about Cambricon, which is another yet
another, I have to say, uh AI chip maker
in China. But different with
uh with the difference between
Cambricon and Moore Threads is that
Cambricon is actually a more realistic
uh rival against Nvidia. Um
we we all know Nvidia is having a lot of
trouble in China. They cannot sell
their AI cards in this country uh
legally. Uh but for Cambricon, it's it's
it's it's opportunity, right? They
basically they are trying to fill the
void left by Nvidia. Uh
but there is also still competition. So,
basically Cambricon, Huawei, and Hygon,
there there are quite a few uh
competitors in this country trying to
fill this void left by uh Nvidia. Uh but
Cambricon is is emerging as a one of the
like a top contenders in in in in this
race in China.
Um we we just reported that they they
are having a pretty optimistic uh target
for next year's uh chip shipment. The
capacity is is growing. They are they
are suppliers are are uh you know,
having a bigger
uh scope of the of the of the shipments.
So, basically it's it's a good thing for
them.
Uh looking longer, uh I think the the
the race between Cambricon and Huawei is
is definitely going to
go more intense, because
you if you look at Chinese uh
hyperscalers, Tencent, Baidu, Alibaba,
uh and ByteDance.
Uh ByteDance basically is the
Cambricon's biggest client. And now,
from next year, Cambricon is
closing in to get get more clients like
Alibaba. So, it will it will grow,
basically. For for Huawei, uh the the
race is on.
You know, I I you've done some really
great reporting this year, Gal, across
the the ecosystem and in the developers
in particular, the competition amongst
them, because it's it's so fascinating
when you look at
the production targets for Cambricon
that you reported on. You stack that up
against Huawei. You had another scoop on
that early this year. But but again,
looking to double their output of AI
chips. You've got Moore Threads again
that's wants to scale up. So, you've got
that capacity constraint you've already
mentioned for for the foundry side,
because SMIC and HuaHong can only
produce so much, and only one of those
can actually do the more advanced nodes.
But but what does it look like in terms
of of the the demand as well, because
you mentioned ByteDance being a big
buyer
into 2026, is this the year that China
actually looks to to try and get more
global exposure and more global buyers
for its products, or you think it's
going to be totally swallowed up by
mainland Chinese demand?
I think for for for those hyperscalers,
they have several approaches. For
domestic data centers, they have to use
well, the the you know,
uh made in China chips, because that's
that's the mandate basically for them at
this point, because they cannot
for the most advanced
Trump doesn't Well,
we can we can discuss
if Trump is willing to allow Nvidia to
sell the some of the most advanced chips
to China, but for now it's it's a no
deal.
Uh for less advanced, China doesn't
really wants to grow its own domestic
brand, so there's no chance for Nvidia
there. Um but for those hyperscalers,
Annabelle, I think they are all still
trying to build overseas data centers,
where they all they can they can have
uh some Nvidia chips running and helping
the helping with their training. The the
the performance of locally made chips,
Chinese chips, are actually not as good
as Nvidia's best training cards. So,
most of the Chinese cards are used to do
uh inference jobs rather than training.
So, for for training um they they they
they have to find some other smart ways
to do that.
All right, Bloomberg tech reporter Gal
Yu on. Great having you on this morning,
uh Friday, on the China show. Still
ahead, how developer China Vanke's
offshore creditors, they're facing an
average recovery rate of just 18% if
they pursue a liquidation. A closer look
at their limited options coming up next.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> And welcome back. You're watching the
China show. Some property news out of
China this morning. Country Garden has
named President Mo Bin co-chair after
winning court approval for its offshore
debt overhaul.
Meanwhile, New World's bond swap plan is
set to trim about 1.2 billion dollars
from the company's debt pile, but the
distressed Hong Kong developer is still
facing liquidity strains with one of the
heaviest debt burdens in the city, Bell.
Yeah, and China Vanke seeking a one-year
repayment delay on a two-billion-dollar
note, forcing investors to reassess
their positions. Let's get more with our
opinion columnist Shirley Ran Ran,
rather. Uh you think uh
We think China Vanke is an oddity
with with really no end game in sight.
But
I think you've been looking at different
liquidation scenarios and exactly how
much can be recovered from this, but it
seems
fairly dismal or bleak, the outlook.
That's right. Vanke's dollar bond
investors can expect at most a 20% of a
recovery rate with a possibility of uh
recovering only 10 to 15% of their uh
original investment. And the reason is
that these kind of dollar bonds, they
they don't have much protection, to be
to be fair. Like
the this dollar bond, the two the two
dollar bonds that worth 1.3 billion um
they're not issued by the the parent
company, China Vanke, but by Vanke's uh
Hong Kong incorporated subsidiary. And
it essentially is uh basically a shell
company. So, US dollar investors, the
best they can do is claw out assets that
belong to the subsidiary. And
unfortunately, the the really viable
main asset is the 20% 21% stake in uh
warehouse warehouse operator GLP
Holdings. And uh that at face value is
worth about two billion dollars. But
that stake was also pledged away for 1.2
billion dollar loan. So, on the asset
side, we're looking at less than one
billion worth. But on the liability
side, offshore unsecured uh credit,
they're over five billion. So, you do
the math. At most, we're looking at 18
17%.
>> And it's shaping up to be a pretty ugly
fight between creditors, right? We've
already seen some investors essentially
uh at least three of them are going to
be balking at the delay in the debt
repayment plan, right? So, is this going
to how ugly is this going to turn?
Creditor-to-creditor violence, if you
will.
>> Yes, it will be quite violent, because
because like we we we know the average
recovery ratio will be like about 18
20%, right? So, so for every dollar of
asset, there will be five dollars of
creditors. And the bigger creditors, for
instance, the the big three or four mega
Chinese banks that have given out Hong
Kong dollar loans to Vanke. They are
going to have a
first grab, first land grab, right?
Because look China Vanke does a lot of
business with them, I'm sure. They can
say if you don't give me all the assets,
I'm going to cut off your loans, I'm
sure. So I I really think US dollar bond
holders, they are looking at a 10 15% at
most and the
the the the
prices are reflecting that. Like Vanke's
dollar bonds are trading at 20 cents on
the dollar. That's an ugly haircut,
isn't it?
>> Yeah. So
how does Shenzhen Metro, which is the
biggest shareholder, play into the
situation as well? So it's Shenzhen
Metro at the beginning of the year
offered some kind of informal bailout by
giving out uh uh
about 20 billion yuan of unsecured
shareholder loan, but they had a change
of heart lately. And you can't blame
them because Vanke is a ever expanding
black hole. It's contracted sales is
expected to fall more than 40% this
year, right? Like and the Shenzhen
Metro, any SOE, they don't want to throw
good money after bad. So they they are
basically step- stepping back and say,
"Okay, I only have 27% stake. I'm not a
majority shareholder. You are on your
own."
All right, Shirley. Thanks for joining
us this morning. Really great analysis.
That was our Bloomberg opinion columnist
Shirley Ren there
talking about China Vanke amongst those
developers but seeking a one year delay
to to repayments of its 2 billion yuan
note. I earlier said dollar, but I
definitely mean 2 billion yuan note. But
let's get more on that outlook for the
China property space and bring it bring
in Monica Saigal. She's founder and CIO
of Triada Capital joining us. So thanks
very much for coming into the studio and
I think we can start exactly there with
what we're seeing with with China Vanke
just concerns generally around the China
property space. How are you looking at
the risks and and how acute do they look
for you right now?
Um so you know, we have been for the
last couple of years really staying away
from that space overall other than a few
tactical trades.
Um I would say that you know, Shirley's
basically right. I would add to the
difficulty of the analysis the fact that
all the high yield property developers
have to some extent off balance sheet
that may or may not have been cleaned up
along the way. So that's another big
question mark into the calculation of
recovery. Um you know, I think the
interesting thing here is that we all
knew that Vanke was not consolidated
into
Shenzhen Metro. So to that extent, it
really wasn't a proper SOE.
And I think this is also the reason why
the
this
you know, kind of
chaotic sort of mess that's folding
right now hasn't really impacted the SOE
credit space because I think people
still thinks that there is a line
between sort of proper SOEs and the
quasi. Is there a line there because
again, the question is about the
systemic shocks that these individual
property developers, which are part of a
bigger problem, obviously that has not
been resolved. Evergrande basically was
was liquidated and then you have also of
course Country Garden also at least
getting approval for their debt
restructuring plan, but that at one time
was the biggest
property developer, residential property
developer in China. What is going to be
the systemic shock to the big parents
and the SOEs and the banks?
Yeah, you know, to be fair, I think it's
been well telegraphed for a while now
that privately owned enterprises are
really on their own. I think Vanke was
given a lifeline for a while to sort of
allow them to see what happens with
sales, see if there's some rebound.
And yeah, I think that the government
wanted to hold a sentiment prop it up
for as long as they could. The reality
is that you know, to your point, I think
there's some increased risk. I don't
think that we're in this zone where
China cannot manage this on on
nationwide level. Not not yet, but I
would say that banks, this you know,
what happened with Vanke here, I think
is demonstrating that the banks you
know, are more concerned about asset
deterioration, so they don't want to
keep on extending credit. You know, I
mean, even after all the
extensions or the restructuring and some
of the write-downs, you know, there's
still a decent percentage of bank loans
today
that are in property space. It's
estimated to be around 5%. Probably
reality is more. The regional banks
probably have even more than that. And
then you know, you have around that
percentage in the actual asset base
valuation. So the deterioration of this
will continue for now. You know, we're
looking at this year year-on-year
another sort of down 20% of sales you
know, across the top 100 developers. And
that actually to put it in into
perspective is you know, around 70%
below the average of the last four years
of property sales in China. So you know,
this is quite dramatic and you know, we
only in the bond space only had a few
last men standing. I think that at some
points of this year people had hopes
that Vanke would be one of them, but it
does look like you know, it's facing the
choice of either hard default or a messy
restructuring. Yeah, so on that if it is
sort of that option A, this this
default, what's
what's sort of the recovery rate that
you can expect? So I you know, as we
know in this market, you don't need to
have a hard default for it to trade like
a defaulted bond. So that's the reality.
That's right. So I would agree with
Shirley that you know, I think you're
going to look at this ending up probably
you know, in you know, at best sort of
10 12 cents. We've seen plenty of these
trade you know, in single digits. I
mean, look at where Evergrande is. So
it's pretty hard to tell and I would say
that the chance of a hard default is
probably lower than a sort of
generalized restructuring, but you know,
it's it's really remains to be seen also
how they treat offshore versus onshore.
The secured versus the
the unsecured, you know, all of that
comes into play also with certain amount
of politics.
What what is your overall
deflationary outlook for China? I mean,
that's going to be the the theme again
in 2026.
And it depends on how much policy
weaponry, if you will, they can throw at
ending this vicious cycle down. They've
tried anti-involution campaigns in
various sectors, but doesn't seem like
there's been a big bazooka to kind of
limit the spiral downward for property.
Yeah, you know, you used the word can.
They can do many things. I think they
choose not to for various reasons.
But you know, the interesting thing is
if if on the off chance that there is a
hard default on Vanke and it starts to
spill over where you know, the already
anemic sales get even much worse because
a sentiment you know, spreads and and
also
you know, banks continue to then
constrain
liquidity and credit you know, in that
space, maybe that will push the
government to bring out the big bazooka,
but we don't see that right now. So I
think that the government will continue
to do what they have done, which is
continue to focus on particular sectors
that they care about as more strategic.
And you know, basically hope to that
what they really need to do is to push
up general demand because you know,
the savings rate continues to increase.
Want to get your views as well just on
the the next big event that we have and
this is the Fed. So shifting now away
from China, but but the Fed and that
Okay, yeah, they're going to cut
probably next week, so we don't need to
worry about that one too much. But but
going into 2026, what's your
expectations around easing, but also
what's your expectation around
Fed chair appointment? Kevin Hassett is
in the lead, but then well, at least
according to betting odds and what Trump
has sort of hinted at, but do you see
any sort of jitters from that given he
is seen as quite pro-Trump as well?
So there's a there's a lot to unpack
there. I mean, first of all, in terms of
the market's view, the probability is
90% that we have a cut.
But you know, there is still that
non-negligible 10%
and I think this speaks to the fact that
we all know the committee was pretty
divided. And if you go just by data and
the economic environment and the macro
liquidity that's present today,
you know, there's a pretty good case for
why you should not cut yet. And and I
think the Fed is faced between either a
hawkish hike or dovish pause.
You know, I do think that most likely
they will cut, but the reality is that
there are some inflation pressures.
We've firmly shifted away from trying to
meet inflation targets to worrying about
the labor markets. But even with the
soft data that's come out this week, you
know, there is you know, the ADP, but
then versus unemployment claims not
being so bad. The economy isn't that bad
shape to be honest. Monica Saigal,
founder and CIO of Triada Capital.
Thanks so much for your time and coming
in on this Friday morning. We have more
on the show coming up after the break.
This of course is the China show and
this is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Quick check on how markets are faring
this morning. We are about an hour into
the session and you are seeing some
broad downside here. So property stocks
looking to be a big drag on mainland
equities as we head into this Friday
session.
>> [music]
>> It's 11:29 11:29 [music] a.m. this
morning in Tokyo. I'll start that one
again, but we do have Japanese equities
just about to go into [music] their
lunch break and that's actually the
Nikkei that's dragging down the broader
benchmark today in Asia. It wasn't very
strong Thursday session for them. Some
of the things they're watching in
particular, well we just had a
some data coming out for for spending
essentially, consumer spending in the
last couple of hours, but we actually
saw households reducing their spending
for the first time in 6 months. So,
decreases in transport, decreases in
housing, but actually economists were
looking for a gain for that. So, it does
sort of it's an interesting data point I
guess as we look ahead to the BOJ
meeting this this month and and perhaps
officials looking at raising borrowing
costs as well. Yeah, we were going to
check SoftBank shares as well. Seeing
it's up this morning, Masayoshi Son, of
course, the CEO working on a plan to
build Trump branded industrial parks
around the US using funds pegged by the
Japanese government as part of a recent
trade deal. This according to the Wall
Street Journal. So, we're seeing
SoftBank up about 4%. Japanese lender
Aozora Bank has carved out a niche by
financing leveraged buyouts at a time
when Japan is seeing a surge in deal
making. M&A in dollar terms is set to
reach the second highest level on record
this year. CEO Hideto Omi told us he
expects more opportunities as Japanese
firms address governance reform.
I believe the trend will continue. For
over 30 years amid Japan's economic
stagnation, the government and the Bank
of Japan have implemented various
measures to revitalize the economy
including the corporate governance code
and Tokyo Stock Exchange reform. These
are finally starting to show results and
gain momentum. The trend won't stop. I
believe it will continue next year, too.
You touched upon corporate governance
reform, but I'd like to delve a bit
deeper into next year's outlook.
What kind of M&A's do you think will
increase? The number of MBO's is also
rising.
There are almost no top managers who are
not paying attention to capital
efficiency. Everyone is seriously
discussing what their company should be
both in management or within the boards.
This could mean an M&A, going private,
or other approaches.
So, I believe we'll see a broad range of
these options emerge this year with some
existing ones expanding further.
Moving on to LBO acquisition financing,
your bank's loan balance increased
significantly in the previous earnings
report.
The balance is increasing. I believe
many banks are doing this,
but do you perceive any challenges or
issues in the market?
LBO loans have existed for some time,
but since the capital cost reforms
began, the number of deals has
increased. There's also a slight trend
towards larger deals. In that sense,
it's a question whether the banks
currently offering this financing can
respond to the demand. It's not just us.
We need to support and encourage the
improvement of Japan's capital markets,
but also broadening the base a bit more.
I'd like you to elaborate a bit more on
this part about broadening the base. The
issues are quite limited and there's
also the secondary market discussion.
How do you think we should ideally
broaden the base?
Both, actually. We must broaden
participation even as we issue and we
also need participants entering through
syndication and secondary markets. Until
now, it was often the case that a
limited number of banks acted as primary
underwriters, but to broaden this, I
believe it's crucial to establish a
system that allows those who haven't
focused much on this area yet, but are
looking to get involved to participate
effectively.
When it comes to LBO, Aozora Bank has
been quite a pioneer in Japan since the
early days of this market. Could you
tell us a bit about how you plan to
approach this current booming market?
January 4th next year marks exactly 25
years since we became Aozora Bank. This
LBO loan business along with structured
finance in general was a field we worked
in from the start.
During this time, we've handled numerous
deals, many successes and failures.
Myself and a lot of employees have
extensive experience. I believe it's
necessary for us to vigorously drive the
growth of this market while also
maintaining a certain level of
discipline to foster a healthy market.
You mentioned a disciplined, healthy
market. Regional banks are increasingly
participating in this field. What can
Aozora do in relation to these regional
banks?
We've already worked with several banks.
They come to our bank as trainees. It's
a case of learning by doing. They
participate as members of the deal team
handling the actual case. After that,
they return to their local bank and when
we do a syndication, we can communicate
using the same language and mindset.
Also, when similar LBO type projects
arise locally, we participate and work
together. I believe that developing this
kind of relationship will contribute to
the growth of the market.
That was the Aozora Bank CEO there
speaking with Bloomberg's Hideki Suzuki
and taking a look at China benchmarks
cuz we're an hour into the session and
it's not looking that great to end the
week actually. We're seeing some broad
downside here. Not substantive losses,
but still we do see trading volumes as
well looking fairly thin across the the
Asian region. Some of the standouts and
we've been speaking about it all
morning, but it's More Threads, of
course, and this is the
I mean, essentially this is a company
that wants to become the Nvidia in
China. There's we hear that kind of
frequently. There's a few Nvidias that
would-be Nvidias. Well, it's run by a
former It is, exactly. Mr. Zhang or
Chairman Zhang is is a former Nvidia
employee, worked for that business from
2006 to 2020, but as well, this company
is following the the approach of Nvidia
by developing fully functioning or fully
functional GPUs and that sets it apart
from a a player like Cambricon, for
instance, it's working on ASIC chips
that have more specialized
functionality. But that's More Threads
again, very strong trading debut for
that company.
Property sector though is the big drag
on the benchmark today and it's it's an
interesting one because even though
investors and this is talking taking a
look at at what's on our M Live blog,
but Mark Cranfield is mak- making the
point that investors might have written
off property stocks as a headwind, but
they're still coming back to hurt the
broader market because you take a look,
for instance, at the Shanghai real
estate sub-index and it's down around
11% from its September peak and losses
are accelerating in the quarter. Yeah, I
mean, [clears throat] just it's been a
avalanche of different news about bond
restructurings and whether there's going
to be
creditor revolts at Vanke. Country
Garden obviously going through some
painful times and then New World
obviously had that news earlier this
week where essentially did not reach
that threshold for their restructuring
plan. Yeah, I think it's 72% approval
rate, which actually some were saying
it's still going to be a win for the
business, but but obviously
headwinds facing New World as well.
Well, let's get more perspective on
where we go in the real estate market.
Bring in Wei Shang. She's chief China
economist at Goldman Sachs joining us
this morning. So, thanks for coming into
the studio and I think as we said, we
can start in that property space and
sort of the overhang. I mean, it's it's
really the perennial problem in in
mainland China. Yeah, that's correct.
When you talk to clients, it feels like
we have been talking about this for the
past 5 years and yet it's a still a very
important part of the economy.
If you look at the data past a couple
months,
you do see accelerated decline in
activity in prices. So, this is indeed
very concerning.
I was in Beijing, Shanghai talking to
clients and some of the clients, if
their own property prices are falling,
that influence their sentiment and
to some degree affect their view on the
market on the broader economy.
>> So, how much is that then tied? Have you
been finding both from the authorities
you talked to and also anecdotally from
the people as far as boosting
consumption is a key
push. It's going to be a central
economic work conference going to be
meeting, I believe, next week in the
run-up to the National People's Congress
where we're expecting to get policies
that will boost consumption. But how
much do you see as an economist at
Goldman essentially seeing that the
value of their homes is directly tied to
the ability and the desire to spend?
It is a a important channel. If you
think about average households, what is
your biggest asset? It is the real
estate. So, the price decline certainly,
no doubt, will have
negative impact on consumption. That
said,
we are of the view that in the first few
years of the housing downturn, we talk
about the housing's contribution or drag
to GDP growth or broader economy. And
now it feels the broader economy is
pulling down property as well. In the
sense, if you don't have jobs and
income, you don't consume and the
overall economy is slowing and that put
further pressure on people's buying
capability and therefore you see prices
are falling.
What happens though in terms of the the
the response? You've got the fiscal
side, the monetary side, but there's
been commentary, for instance, from the
PBOC governor writing in the People's
Daily newsletter but or newspaper,
rather, but saying that they should be
avoiding China excessive policy
adjustments. So, it tells you maybe
they're not looking to to make any sort
of changes in the near term.
Yeah, so if you look at the recent PBOC
communication, there is a somewhat still
accommodative but less dovish tone in
their communication.
I think if you look at, you know,
effects is no longer a constraint for
PBOC to cut rate, but perhaps the bank
interest margin is a constraint for PBOC
to further reduce interest rate. And
some of the policy makers perhaps also
have the view that cutting 10 basis
points, 20 basis points, that's not
really getting at the core of the
problem. If you look at it historically,
we did analysis looking at all these
housing busts around the globe, it takes
a really long time to get to the bottom.
On average, it takes 6 years.
So, by that metric, we're still still
not at the bottom yet.
>> How much do you think authorities will
allow the RMB to appreciate? That would
also give a little bit more spending
power in the pockets of households.
I think if that channel might not be the
most important on policy makers' mind
just because if you look at how much the
Chinese consumers buying foreign
products, not that
not much. So, I think in terms of
managing the currency, there are a
couple of considerations. One is
managing the flows. You want to make
sure the currency appreciation
both direction and pace is not causing
massive inflows and outflows and market
volatility. Then secondly, I think the
whole RMB internationalization,
especially in this geopolitical
environment, is a carrying political and
economic significance. And if you want
others to use your currency, you need a
stable and perhaps mildly appreciating
currency. Mhm. Okay,
then in terms of of the policy steps
that you do see eventuating then cuz it
would coming into the Politburo meeting,
we're coming into the Central Economic
Work Conference as well. Where do you
see them really trying to to hone in on
them for next year?
In our expectation,
you know, as I said, it is the broader
macroeconomy, the labor market, the
income growth that is impacting the
property sector. So, I think a macro
policy
perhaps need to get back to the basics,
the monetary policy, the fiscal policy,
the credit policy, and the housing
measures collectively
really
drive the broader economy and income
growth to move higher, and that will
solve a lot of problems, including
property, local government debt issue. I
think right now,
you know, targeting the bigger picture
perhaps more important than targeting a
specific problem area. I see in your
tour of economists going to Beijing and
Shenzhen also offshore. You said just
about every potential investor asked
about AI. How should the investor for
China AI? We've been covering more
threads today, Cambricon, all these
different companies, including there's a
new debutant
today in the AI space here in Hong Kong.
How How can you look at the AI space
from a different lens than how you look
at AI in the United States, which is
powered obviously the S&P to still near
those record highs? Yeah, in our client
conversations, you know, people worry
about AI's implication for job market.
That's not just for China's or US, it's
globally.
Eventually, how do we manage the
technology innovation and
lack of lack of potentially lack of a
job opportunities. But I noticed
something interesting in the onshore
discussions, investors are more
concerned about
AI bubble in the US. And if that
correction happens, that would have
implications for Chinese equity market.
But offshore, the questions are not
really that much about AI bubble outside
of China, but more about is there any
bottleneck in the China AI
sort of push and the semiconductors a
real constraint and how China's AI push
will be different than the US. I think
reading government policy is pretty
clear.
Even in the consumption document
creating 3 trillion RMB of a consumption
areas, there's a heavy discussion about
marrying AI with a supply of goods and
services.
Then on that, if if people are concerned
around the the the US AI bubble and and
the potential that that also pops, does
it also become an issue for Is there a
link to exports in China as well?
Because if if you've got a lot of
people's wealth that's being tied up in
in in that that wealth generation from
the AI bubble, and then you have that
pullback in spending, and does that Is
there any sort of read across risk that
you look at for next year? Certainly. I
mean, when people ask us, you know, our
view is that
Chinese exports will remain strong in
the coming years. At end of October, we
raised our forecast for the next few
years. And that was the largest GDP
revision
in a decade. And you know, when people
ask, what are the risks to your view?
Externally, that is whether it's AI
driven or some other event driven, if
your trading partners are in recession
or in economic slowdown, that won't be
very conducive to this export driven
growth model. All right, Wei Shan,
thanks so much for joining us. That's
Chief China Economist at Goldman Sachs
joining us this Friday morning. All
right. Just before we go to the break,
we are getting headlines across the
terminal about Xiaohongshu, Red Note as
it's known outside of China. Taiwan is
banning that Chinese app, Xiaohongshu,
due to fraud concerns.
Obviously, Red Note,
a controversial one, at least in the
United States. Again, on the tech front
from China. A Red Note, Taiwan's saying
it's banning that app, highlighting the
democracy worries related to social
media apps from across the strait. There
were about 1,700 fraud cases involving
some
$7.9 million since last year, according
to the Interior Ministry in Taipei. So,
we'll have to watch this and see. This
ban will last, I think, at least 30
days, did I see, Annabelle?
Yes, something like that. Anyway, we're
going to be following this story as it
develops. [music] We'll be right back.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> And welcome back to the China show.
Again, we're just recapping the headline
that crossed a few minutes ago, and I
need to make a little bit of a
correction. It's live television, folks.
I said 30-day ban, it's actually for 1
year, citing those fraud worries on
Xiaohongshu, Red Note as it is known
outside of China. Yeah, and I think the
concern for officials in Taiwan is that
if you have any sort of fraud or scam
activity, there's really little recourse
>> recourse. if if the app isn't based
there. So, anyway, that's the details on
that one, but let's shift course because
I think it's interesting you see that
pushback from the PBOC on that yuan
appreciation. We're you're also seeing
some moves from from central banks to
also try and and limit the moves in the
currency as well as what's happening
with the RBI because yesterday in the
session, we actually saw the rupee
erasing losses and gaining for the first
day in seven, and that's after the
central bank stepped up dollar sales to
try support the currency. Of course, the
rupee has been moving in absolutely the
the opposite direction, really. That's
right. Bloomberg Economics thinks the
RBI is set to restart rate cuts later
today due to record low inflation and
pressure on the rupee. For more,
Bloomberg's FX Rates Reporter Malavika
Kol Mark Kol joins us from Mumbai. So,
what is expected?
Yeah, hi. Good morning. Traders,
economists, everybody Most of them are
looking for a rate cut today. The
outlook is clouded by a plunging rupee,
however. So, they're also going to be
watching for any rupee comments from the
RBI governor when he delivers his speech
later today. And they're also going to
be watching for any announcements on
bond purchases to replenish some of that
liquidity that is drained when the RBI
intervenes to support the FX.
What's the sort of tone that you're
expecting the the governor to strike as
well later?
Yeah, I mean, he has earlier pointed out
that there is space to cut rate,
especially given the fact that inflation
is so low in India right now. But the
spanner in the works here is the fact
that GDP has been really resilient
despite the fact that we've seen one of
the harshest tariff rates in Asia from
the US, which is at 50% on Indian
exports, and the fact that we've seen
the rupee depreciate past a key
psychological level of 90 per dollar
this week. So, we are expecting him to
strike up a really fine balance between
managing expectations of a rate cut
while also managing FX depreciation.
How does it look? You mentioned that
currency, and of course, it was the big
move this week, the rupee going, as you
said, below that 90 level, a key
psychological level. How does the the
the the rate decision later today also
have a bearing on the currency against
the greenback as well ahead of the Fed
decision next week?
Yeah, that's a good question. When
central banks cut rate, it usually
negatively affects the currency. So, it
is also to be seen if
currency considerations will play into
today's rate decision because we already
saw that 90 break. We saw some gains in
the rupee yesterday with the RBI
stepping in to defend
the rupee more forcefully.
But it is to be seen if today, you know,
that that rupee consideration will come
into play when they sit down to deliver
the rate decision.
Malavika, great to have you with us.
That was our Bloomberg FX and Rates
Reporter Malavika Kol Mark Kol joining
us as we have that RBA RBI decision
coming up, rather. And really that
expectation we're going to see a restart
on cuts. But monetary policy and the
outlook for India's central bank is very
much going to be the focus of insight
later this hour. We've got our next hour
I've got two great guests who are
coming up time to your screen. And for
more coverage on key stories in the
region catch the latest episode of Wall
Street Week which takes a deep dive into
the unrest in Nepal. Bloomberg traveled
to Kathmandu [music] to find out the
stories behind the protest and what they
mean for the rest of the world. Don't
miss that on Friday 6:00 p.m. if you're
watching in New York 7:00 a.m. Saturday
morning
here in Hong Kong.
We'll be right back on the China show.
This is Bloomberg.
And welcome back to the China show. Some
corporate news this morning. Temasek
controlled Fullerton Fund Management is
said to be winding down [music] its
China business including an 8-year-old
hedge fund unit. Sources say
Singapore-based Fullerton has shut most
operations [music]
at the Shanghai hedge fund and another
private fund business and cut most of
its onshore staff. But the firm has told
Bloomberg [music] it plans to maintain a
presence in China.
US senators are seeking a ban on Nvidia
from shipping advanced artificial
intelligence chips to China. They're in
they've introduced [music] a bipartisan
legislation in the bid to codify
existing US restrictions on exports of
advanced semiconductors. The [music]
bill would be if would effectively bar
Nvidia from selling its H200 AI chips to
China customers as well [music] as its
more advanced Blackwell products.
And Meta shares gained as [music]
Bloomberg revealed Mark Zuckerberg is
expected to make significant cuts to
resources for building his company's
so-called metaverse.
Our sources say that executives are
[music] considering budget cuts as high
as 30% for units including Meta Horizon
Worlds
>> [music]
>> and Quest VR. The CEO had previously
framed the project as the future of the
company and the reason [music] actually
for changing its name to Meta from
Facebook. All right, still in the tech
space this morning cuz I think of
there's been a really big theme we're
watching and it's what you can see here
coming up. But you've got copper
actually we'll get to take in a moment
but copper is is certainly surging
you're above that 11,000 level. It's
actually a really interesting call we've
got from Goldman Sachs and they're
saying that this surge you've seen it's
actually going to prove short-lived
according to their estimates and that's
because there's more than enough metal
to meet global demand. But you are
seeing a lot more people turning more
bullish on the outlook for that
commodity into 2026. As we said the tech
story today and the one that we've been
very much tracking through the session
is this listing for more threads because
this is a company that wants to be the
next Nvidia in mainland China. What also
makes it different is that this is the
company that's following Nvidia's
approach with fully functioning GPUs and
also the chairman chairman Jang is a
former Nvidia
spokesperson or employee rather instead.
Yeah. So
connect the dots. That's what the
investors are doing, right?
All right, that's it for the China show.
Insight with Haslinda Amin is next.